Welcome back in this section we're going to use D-3 to manipulate elements and.
We'll get to fancy data visualisations eventually.
But first it's important to understand the D-3 approached common tasks.
You can do in the know what javascript or Jake.
And this video will learn how to select elements non-dom using D-3 that select and D-3 that select all
will set attributes in our text and style properties on D-3 selections and we'll learn how to get attribute
and property values on the selections.
We'll also see how to change the three methods together to make more complex changes to the dome in
the next video.
We'll explore the selection methods a bit further by pasand callback functions and do them to set properties
and attributes dynamically.
After that we'll add a ventless news using the method and use that event to access the event objects
inside of an event listener.
Finally we'll see how to add and removes DOM elements with D-3.
So let's jump into it to begin using the three.
All you need to do is load it at the bottom of your HVM else using the script tag.
I've already made a simple HDMI out page with a few different elements and loaded D-3 at the bottom.
You can see the code at this link and a live version of the HD M-L at this one.
If you hop into the chrome console you can verify that D-3 loaded correctly by typing D-3 and pressing
enter.
If you see the D-3 object you're good to go.
It's important to note that what we use in D-3 version for throughout these sections Lets start by using
D-3 to select elements in the DOM for this D-3 provides us with two methods D-3 that select when we
want to select a single element in D-3 does select all.
When we want to select multiple elements both of these methods except a valid CSSA selector but to use
these methods to select a couple of things in the dark.
First let them deal with an idea page title.
I can do something similar to grab all the allies in both cases.
D-3 returns to us a selection object.
This object has two internal properties called groups and parents the leading underscores are meant
to indicate that you should not be accessing these properties directly.
So how do you access the elements in the selection.
Well if you want to access all of the allies you've selected just as raw HVM elements you should use
the nodes method on the selection.
This method returns an array of matching elements.
If you just want the first element you can also use the node method
however most of the time when you use the three you don't want to access the elements directly.
You probably want to interact with them via the D-3 selection object.
For example if we wanted to change the background color of the H-1 we use the style method on the D-3
selection to set a new color.
Notice that the style method again returns a D-3 selection to us.
This pattern of returning a selection allows us to change many methods to the other so that we can update
many properties of our selection without having to receive the element over and over.
Let's take a look at a few more methods.
After updating some styles I'll add a class and set the text inside of the 20 D-3 is cool.
The style method let to set any CSSA style property.
Similarly the adder method to set other attributes on the selected elements.
The text method lets us set the entire text of our selection.
There is an h t m l method that lets us set inner HD amount to hear used three methods to set values
on our elements.
But we can also use them to get values whenever you don't pass in an argument to determine the new value.
These methods will work as getters for example if we call text on our page title selection.
We'll get the inner text.
If we call stylin passengers the name of a property will get the corresponding value for that property.
Finally notice that we use the outer method to set a class but when we're working with classes specifically
D-3 provides us with a different method called class.
Class act takes in a space separated list of class names that we want to set and a value if that value
is truthy.
Those classes will be set on the selection.
Otherwise they'll be removed.
Here's our code look using the class method instead.
Cool.
This covers the basics of working with selections D-3 in the next video.
We'll learn about how to set attributes and properties using callback functions rather than hardcoded
values like we've done here.
I'll see if there.